Quantitative Analysis
=====================

A <u>mole</u> is the number **6.023 x 10<sup>23</sup>**.

We use this number because when you get that number of particles, the mass of the any element or compound will be the same number of grams as the relative mass (M<sub>r</sub> or A<sub>r</sub>).

The **molar mass** of a substance is just the mass of one mole of that substance. So, since the relative atomic mass of a carbon-12 atom is 12, the molar mass of that atom will be 12g.

### Mole Calculations
```
Mass = Number of Moles x Mr
```
... or **My name's Mr**.

#### Example:
**What is the mass in grams of 3.5 moles of magnesium?**

M<sub>r</sub> of Mg = 24, Number of moles = 3.5

In order to find the mass we need to times the number of moles by the M<sub>r</sub>.

```
  24 x 3.5 = 84g
```

### Concentration
Concentration is the __amount of stuff__ per Unit volume.

It's either measured in g/dm<sup>3</sup> or mol/dm<sup>3</sup> (or equally moldm<sup>-3</sup>).

Here's the important bit:
```
Concentration = Mass รท Volume
```

For the concentration in moles...
```
Mole Concentration = Mass Concentration รท Mr 
```

And for the concentration in mass...
```
Mass Concentration = Mole Concentration x Mr
```

## Hard Water

Water can be **hard** or **soft**. The harder the water, the more Ca<sup>2+</sup> and Mg<sup>2+</sup> ions are present.

Hard water doesn't lather easily and reacts with soapp to make a precipiate knows as *scum*. Therefore, when using hard water, more soap is required.

There are **2** types of hardness...

### Temporary Hardness
Temporary hardness is caused by calcium hydrocarbonate, Ca(HCO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub> which can be removed by boiling. The calcium hydrocarbonate thermally decomposes into soluable CaCO<sub>3</sub>.

### Permanent Hardness
Permanent hardness can only be removed by using an **ion exchange**. The water is passed through an ion exchange which contains a resin to remove the hardness. The resin contains sodium ions which 'exchanges' for the calcium or mangnesium ions in the water.

## Titrations
Titrations are a method of determining concentration.
